README.md, before:

# ExpandAI demonstrator

<a href="https://www.expandai.de" target="_blank"><img src="./.documentation/assets/expandAI-logo.png" alt="exapnad logo" style="width:200px;"/><br/>www.expandai.de</a>

## Demonstrator overview

The goal of this demonstrator is a secure and legally compliant method to collect and manage data from various wearable sensor sources (e.g. smartphone and smartwatch), which can then be used to train AI algorithms. The prototype focuses on integrating AI-based DiGAs into the healthcare ecosystem by adhering to the FAIR (Find ability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reusability) and Gaia-X principles. These guidelines ensure that data management is transparent, accessible, and fair. The ability to gather and analyze data about health conditions and influencing factors is crucial for developing new therapies and holistic care strategies.

<img alt="ExpandAI Demonstrator" height="500" src="./.documentation/assets/DiGA_overview.png" width="500"/>

At the core of this project is a data integration center, which gathers and standardizes Parkinson patient data from a smartphone (iPhone 12 Pro Max) and smartwatch (Apple Watch Series 8). AI analytics within the center enable near real-time data insights, supporting Parkinson healthcare professionals and researchers in decision-making and advancing medical research. Our prototype proposes a framework for secure data exchange between scientific institutions and industry partners. This collaboration can empower healthcare providers to monitor Parkinson patient health using a simple traffic light system to indicate their condition: green for well, yellow for unwell but not critical, and red for emergencies. This system will be accessible via a web platform for doctors, providing valuable insights while minimizing data sharing. Moreover, limited access to these databases for companies developing DiGAs could enhance AI model training and product development, ultimately advancing personalized healthcare and improving patient outcomes.

## Dashboard

The dashboard provides a clear, organized interface for displaying both results and finger-tap data, offering insights
into patient motor performance.
The use of visual elements like charts and traffic lights effectively communicates the data trends and potential areas
of concern. The chart highlights key metrics, thumb and digit movements over time, allowing users to track progress or
deterioration. The traffic light system adds a simple yet powerful tool for quick assessments, signaling performance
status with an intuitive red-yellow-green scheme.

![ExpandAI Demonstrator Dashboard](./.documentation/assets/DiGA_dashboard.png)

![ ExpandAI Demonstrator Dashboard](./.documentation/assets/DiGA_graf.png)

## Technologies used

The FAIR data space enables information exchange between research and industry organizations.

- Java
- Spring Boot
- React
- Gaia-x standards
- Docker Containers
- Github
- REST and OpenAPI

This application was generated using JHipster 8.6.0, you can find documentation and help at [https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0](https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0).

## Project Structure

Node is required for generation and recommended for development. `package.json` is always generated for a better development experience with prettier, commit hooks, scripts and so on.

In the project root, JHipster generates configuration files for tools like git, prettier, eslint, husky, and others that are well known, and you can find references in the web.

`/src/*` structure follows default Java structure.

- `.yo-rc.json` - Yeoman configuration file
  JHipster configuration is stored in this file at `generator-jhipster` key. You may find `generator-jhipster-*` for specific blueprints configuration.
- `.yo-resolve` (optional) - Yeoman conflict resolver
  Allows to use a specific action when conflicts are found skipping prompts for files that matches a pattern. Each line should match `[pattern] [action]` with pattern been a [Minimatch](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch#minimatch) pattern and action been one of skip (default if omitted) or force. Lines starting with `#` are considered comments and are ignored.
- `.jhipster/*.json` - JHipster entity configuration files

- `npmw` - wrapper to use locally installed npm.
  JHipster installs Node and npm locally using the build tool by default. This wrapper makes sure npm is installed locally and uses it avoiding some differences different versions can cause. By using `./npmw` instead of the traditional `npm` you can configure a Node-less environment to develop or test your application.
- `/src/main/docker` - Docker configurations for the application and services that the application depends on

## Development

The build system will install automatically the recommended version of Node and npm.

We provide a wrapper to launch npm.
You will only need to run this command when dependencies change in [package.json](package.json).

```
./npmw install
```

We use npm scripts and [Webpack][] as our build system.

Run the following commands in two separate terminals to create a blissful development experience where your browser
auto-refreshes when files change on your hard drive.

```
./mvnw
./npmw start
```

Npm is also used to manage CSS and JavaScript dependencies used in this application. You can upgrade dependencies by
specifying a newer version in [package.json](package.json). You can also run `./npmw update` and `./npmw install` to manage dependencies.
Add the `help` flag on any command to see how you can use it. For example, `./npmw help update`.

The `./npmw run` command will list all the scripts available to run for this project.

### PWA Support

JHipster ships with PWA (Progressive Web App) support, and it's turned off by default. One of the main components of a PWA is a service worker.

The service worker initialization code is commented out by default. To enable it, uncomment the following code in `src/main/webapp/index.html`:

```html
<script>
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    navigator.serviceWorker.register('./service-worker.js').then(function () {
      console.log('Service Worker Registered');
    });
  }
</script>
```

Note: [Workbox](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/) powers JHipster's service worker. It dynamically generates the `service-worker.js` file.

### Managing dependencies

For example, to add [Leaflet][] library as a runtime dependency of your application, you would run following command:

```
./npmw install --save --save-exact leaflet
```

To benefit from TypeScript type definitions from [DefinitelyTyped][] repository in development, you would run following command:

```
./npmw install --save-dev --save-exact @types/leaflet
```

Then you would import the JS and CSS files specified in library's installation instructions so that [Webpack][] knows about them:
Note: There are still a few other things remaining to do for Leaflet that we won't detail here.

For further instructions on how to develop with JHipster, have a look at [Using JHipster in development][].

## Building for production

### Packaging as jar

To build the final jar and optimize the fit application for production, run:

```
./mvnw -Pprod clean verify
```

This will concatenate and minify the client CSS and JavaScript files. It will also modify `index.html` so it references these new files.
To ensure everything worked, run:

```
java -jar target/*.jar
```

Then navigate to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser.

Refer to [Using JHipster in production][] for more details.

### Packaging as war

To package your application as a war in order to deploy it to an application server, run:

```
./mvnw -Pprod,war clean verify
```

### JHipster Control Center

JHipster Control Center can help you manage and control your application(s). You can start a local control center server (accessible on http://localhost:7419) with:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/jhipster-control-center.yml up
```

## Testing

### Spring Boot tests

To launch your application's tests, run:

```
./mvnw verify
```

### Client tests

Unit tests are run by [Jest][]. They're located in [src/test/javascript/](src/test/javascript/) and can be run with:

```
./npmw test
```

## Others

### Code quality using Sonar

Sonar is used to analyse code quality. You can start a local Sonar server (accessible on http://localhost:9001) with:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/sonar.yml up -d
```

Note: we have turned off forced authentication redirect for UI in [src/main/docker/sonar.yml](src/main/docker/sonar.yml) for out of the box experience while trying out SonarQube, for real use cases turn it back on.

You can run a Sonar analysis with using the [sonar-scanner](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SCAN/Analyzing+with+SonarQube+Scanner) or by using the maven plugin.

Then, run a Sonar analysis:

```
./mvnw -Pprod clean verify sonar:sonar -Dsonar.login=admin -Dsonar.password=admin
```

If you need to re-run the Sonar phase, please be sure to specify at least the `initialize` phase since Sonar properties are loaded from the sonar-project.properties file.

```
./mvnw initialize sonar:sonar -Dsonar.login=admin -Dsonar.password=admin
```

Additionally, Instead of passing `sonar.password` and `sonar.login` as CLI arguments, these parameters can be configured from [sonar-project.properties](sonar-project.properties) as shown below:

```
sonar.login=admin
sonar.password=admin
```

For more information, refer to the [Code quality page][].

### Using Docker to simplify development (optional)

You can use Docker to improve your JHipster development experience. A number of docker-compose configuration are available in the [src/main/docker](src/main/docker) folder to launch required third party services.

For example, to start a postgresql database in a docker container, run:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/postgresql.yml up -d
```

To stop it and remove the container, run:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/postgresql.yml down
```

You can also fully dockerized your application and all the services that it depends on.
To achieve this, first build a docker image of your app by running:

```
npm run java:docker
```

Or build an arm64 docker image when using an arm64 processor os like macOS with M1 processor family running:

```
npm run java:docker:arm64
```

Then run:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/app.yml up -d
```

When running Docker Desktop on macOS Big Sur or later, consider enabling experimental `Use the new Virtualization framework` for better processing performance ([disk access performance is worse](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/7)).

For more information refer to [Using Docker and Docker-Compose][], this page also contains information on the docker-compose sub-generator (`jhipster docker-compose`), which is able to generate docker configurations for one or several JHipster applications.

## Continuous Integration (optional)

To configure CI for your project, run the ci-cd sub-generator (`jhipster ci-cd`), this will let you generate configuration files for a number of Continuous Integration systems. Consult the [Setting up Continuous Integration][] page for more information.

[JHipster Homepage and latest documentation]: https://www.jhipster.tech
[JHipster 8.6.0 archive]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0
[Using JHipster in development]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/development/
[Using Docker and Docker-Compose]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/docker-compose
[Using JHipster in production]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/production/
[Running tests page]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/running-tests/
[Code quality page]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/code-quality/
[Setting up Continuous Integration]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/setting-up-ci/
[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[NPM]: https://www.npmjs.com/
[Webpack]: https://webpack.github.io/
[BrowserSync]: https://www.browsersync.io/
[Jest]: https://facebook.github.io/jest/
[Leaflet]: https://leafletjs.com/
[DefinitelyTyped]: https://definitelytyped.org/

docker compose -f postgresql.yml up -d --force-recreate

Commit message:

Add CI/CD config for heroku deployment

README.md, after:

# ExpandAI demonstrator

<a href="https://www.expandai.de" target="_blank"><img src="./.documentation/assets/expandAI-logo.png" alt="exapnad logo" style="width:200px;"/><br/>www.expandai.de</a>

## Demonstrator overview

The goal of this demonstrator is a secure and legally compliant method to collect and manage data from various wearable sensor sources (e.g. smartphone and smartwatch), which can then be used to train AI algorithms. The prototype focuses on integrating AI-based DiGAs into the healthcare ecosystem by adhering to the FAIR (Find ability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reusability) and Gaia-X principles. These guidelines ensure that data management is transparent, accessible, and fair. The ability to gather and analyze data about health conditions and influencing factors is crucial for developing new therapies and holistic care strategies.

<img alt="ExpandAI Demonstrator" height="500" src="./.documentation/assets/DiGA_overview.png" width="500"/>

At the core of this project is a data integration center, which gathers and standardizes Parkinson patient data from a smartphone (iPhone 12 Pro Max) and smartwatch (Apple Watch Series 8). AI analytics within the center enable near real-time data insights, supporting Parkinson healthcare professionals and researchers in decision-making and advancing medical research. Our prototype proposes a framework for secure data exchange between scientific institutions and industry partners. This collaboration can empower healthcare providers to monitor Parkinson patient health using a simple traffic light system to indicate their condition: green for well, yellow for unwell but not critical, and red for emergencies. This system will be accessible via a web platform for doctors, providing valuable insights while minimizing data sharing. Moreover, limited access to these databases for companies developing DiGAs could enhance AI model training and product development, ultimately advancing personalized healthcare and improving patient outcomes.

## Dashboard

The dashboard provides a clear, organized interface for displaying both results and finger-tap data, offering insights
into patient motor performance.
The use of visual elements like charts and traffic lights effectively communicates the data trends and potential areas
of concern. The chart highlights key metrics, thumb and digit movements over time, allowing users to track progress or
deterioration. The traffic light system adds a simple yet powerful tool for quick assessments, signaling performance
status with an intuitive red-yellow-green scheme.

![ExpandAI Demonstrator Dashboard](./.documentation/assets/DiGA_dashboard.png)

![ ExpandAI Demonstrator Dashboard](./.documentation/assets/DiGA_graf.png)

## Technologies used

The FAIR data space enables information exchange between research and industry organizations.

- Java
- Spring Boot
- React
- Gaia-x standards
- Docker Containers
- Github
- REST and OpenAPI

This application was generated using JHipster 8.6.0, you can find documentation and help at [https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0](https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0).

## Project Structure

Node is required for generation and recommended for development. `package.json` is always generated for a better development experience with prettier, commit hooks, scripts and so on.

In the project root, JHipster generates configuration files for tools like git, prettier, eslint, husky, and others that are well known, and you can find references in the web.

`/src/*` structure follows default Java structure.

- `.yo-rc.json` - Yeoman configuration file
  JHipster configuration is stored in this file at `generator-jhipster` key. You may find `generator-jhipster-*` for specific blueprints configuration.
- `.yo-resolve` (optional) - Yeoman conflict resolver
  Allows to use a specific action when conflicts are found skipping prompts for files that matches a pattern. Each line should match `[pattern] [action]` with pattern been a [Minimatch](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch#minimatch) pattern and action been one of skip (default if omitted) or force. Lines starting with `#` are considered comments and are ignored.
- `.jhipster/*.json` - JHipster entity configuration files

- `npmw` - wrapper to use locally installed npm.
  JHipster installs Node and npm locally using the build tool by default. This wrapper makes sure npm is installed locally and uses it avoiding some differences different versions can cause. By using `./npmw` instead of the traditional `npm` you can configure a Node-less environment to develop or test your application.
- `/src/main/docker` - Docker configurations for the application and services that the application depends on

## Development

The build system will install automatically the recommended version of Node and npm.

We provide a wrapper to launch npm.
You will only need to run this command when dependencies change in [package.json](package.json).

```
./npmw install
```

We use npm scripts and [Webpack][] as our build system.

Run the following commands in two separate terminals to create a blissful development experience where your browser
auto-refreshes when files change on your hard drive.

```
./mvnw
./npmw start
```

Npm is also used to manage CSS and JavaScript dependencies used in this application. You can upgrade dependencies by
specifying a newer version in [package.json](package.json). You can also run `./npmw update` and `./npmw install` to manage dependencies.
Add the `help` flag on any command to see how you can use it. For example, `./npmw help update`.

The `./npmw run` command will list all the scripts available to run for this project.

### PWA Support

JHipster ships with PWA (Progressive Web App) support, and it's turned off by default. One of the main components of a PWA is a service worker.

The service worker initialization code is commented out by default. To enable it, uncomment the following code in `src/main/webapp/index.html`:

```html
<script>
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    navigator.serviceWorker.register('./service-worker.js').then(function () {
      console.log('Service Worker Registered');
    });
  }
</script>
```

Note: [Workbox](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/) powers JHipster's service worker. It dynamically generates the `service-worker.js` file.

### Managing dependencies

For example, to add [Leaflet][] library as a runtime dependency of your application, you would run following command:

```
./npmw install --save --save-exact leaflet
```

To benefit from TypeScript type definitions from [DefinitelyTyped][] repository in development, you would run following command:

```
./npmw install --save-dev --save-exact @types/leaflet
```

Then you would import the JS and CSS files specified in library's installation instructions so that [Webpack][] knows about them:
Note: There are still a few other things remaining to do for Leaflet that we won't detail here.

For further instructions on how to develop with JHipster, have a look at [Using JHipster in development][].

## Building for production

To deploy app to heroku run:
`jhipster heroku`

https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/heroku/

### Packaging as jar

To build the final jar and optimize the fit application for production, run:

```
./mvnw -Pprod clean verify
```

This will concatenate and minify the client CSS and JavaScript files. It will also modify `index.html` so it references these new files.
To ensure everything worked, run:

```
java -jar target/*.jar
```

Then navigate to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser.

Refer to [Using JHipster in production][] for more details.

### Packaging as war

To package your application as a war in order to deploy it to an application server, run:

```
./mvnw -Pprod,war clean verify
```

### JHipster Control Center

JHipster Control Center can help you manage and control your application(s). You can start a local control center server (accessible on http://localhost:7419) with:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/jhipster-control-center.yml up
```

## Testing

### Spring Boot tests

To launch your application's tests, run:

```
./mvnw verify
```

### Client tests

Unit tests are run by [Jest][]. They're located in [src/test/javascript/](src/test/javascript/) and can be run with:

```
./npmw test
```

## Others

### Code quality using Sonar

Sonar is used to analyse code quality. You can start a local Sonar server (accessible on http://localhost:9001) with:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/sonar.yml up -d
```

Note: we have turned off forced authentication redirect for UI in [src/main/docker/sonar.yml](src/main/docker/sonar.yml) for out of the box experience while trying out SonarQube, for real use cases turn it back on.

You can run a Sonar analysis with using the [sonar-scanner](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SCAN/Analyzing+with+SonarQube+Scanner) or by using the maven plugin.

Then, run a Sonar analysis:

```
./mvnw -Pprod clean verify sonar:sonar -Dsonar.login=admin -Dsonar.password=admin
```

If you need to re-run the Sonar phase, please be sure to specify at least the `initialize` phase since Sonar properties are loaded from the sonar-project.properties file.

```
./mvnw initialize sonar:sonar -Dsonar.login=admin -Dsonar.password=admin
```

Additionally, Instead of passing `sonar.password` and `sonar.login` as CLI arguments, these parameters can be configured from [sonar-project.properties](sonar-project.properties) as shown below:

```
sonar.login=admin
sonar.password=admin
```

For more information, refer to the [Code quality page][].

### Using Docker to simplify development (optional)

You can use Docker to improve your JHipster development experience. A number of docker-compose configuration are available in the [src/main/docker](src/main/docker) folder to launch required third party services.

For example, to start a postgresql database in a docker container, run:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/postgresql.yml up -d
```

To stop it and remove the container, run:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/postgresql.yml down
```

You can also fully dockerized your application and all the services that it depends on.
To achieve this, first build a docker image of your app by running:

```
npm run java:docker
```

Or build an arm64 docker image when using an arm64 processor os like macOS with M1 processor family running:

```
npm run java:docker:arm64
```

Then run:

```
docker compose -f src/main/docker/app.yml up -d
```

When running Docker Desktop on macOS Big Sur or later, consider enabling experimental `Use the new Virtualization framework` for better processing performance ([disk access performance is worse](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/7)).

For more information refer to [Using Docker and Docker-Compose][], this page also contains information on the docker-compose sub-generator (`jhipster docker-compose`), which is able to generate docker configurations for one or several JHipster applications.

## Continuous Integration (optional)

To configure CI for your project, run the ci-cd sub-generator (`jhipster ci-cd`), this will let you generate configuration files for a number of Continuous Integration systems. Consult the [Setting up Continuous Integration][] page for more information.

[JHipster Homepage and latest documentation]: https://www.jhipster.tech
[JHipster 8.6.0 archive]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0
[Using JHipster in development]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/development/
[Using Docker and Docker-Compose]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/docker-compose
[Using JHipster in production]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/production/
[Running tests page]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/running-tests/
[Code quality page]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/code-quality/
[Setting up Continuous Integration]: https://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v8.6.0/setting-up-ci/
[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[NPM]: https://www.npmjs.com/
[Webpack]: https://webpack.github.io/
[BrowserSync]: https://www.browsersync.io/
[Jest]: https://facebook.github.io/jest/
[Leaflet]: https://leafletjs.com/
[DefinitelyTyped]: https://definitelytyped.org/

docker compose -f postgresql.yml up -d --force-recreate
